---
layout: post
title:  "Goals for 2022."
date:   2022-02-04 23:38:00 -0500
categories: blog
use_math: false
author: Your Correspondent
---

Someone could linkage attack this so hard, but it's whatever. Here are my (somewhat late, but relatively early) goals for the year.

## Goals for 2022

Your correspondent initially wrote these in first person, but &ndash; on further inspection &ndash; thought the detached, "professional advice giver" air of second person created the better vibe.

### Professional goals

1. Graduate in Spring 2022.
1. Get into graduate school(s) for pursuing a PhD, and choose and enroll in one of said schools for Fall 2022.
1. Choose a school where you'll be happy.
1. Choose a school where you will successfully develop myself into a productive (and happy) researcher.
1. Get that paper *submitted*. Get that paper *out* of purgatory.
1. Do some type of research this summer.
1. Alternatively, just do math and run this summer, and don't sweat it. You'll have time for work and money later.

### Health goals

1. Crank that running up to 100 (km per week).
** Ideally, this will be done by the time I'm getting close to (or just past) graduation.
** I would like to 
1. Work in 2&ndash;3 days of speed work.
1. Keep ~trashing~ returning those shoes.

### Other goals

1. Keep people updated on you. Next time [something like the event(s) alluded to here happens]({% post_url 2021-11-15-on-drill-music %}) (God forbid), let people know what's going on and how to help. Don't go it alone. One never has to &ndash; and you, specifically, don't have to. I know that you'll always have at least one guy in your corner. Even if &ndash; for whatever reason &ndash; you don't think you do, just reach out to (a) your family or (b) one of the people you knew from college.
1. Find the courage to ask the "important" question.
** And ideally get the affirmative for which you're hoping.
** And ideally have the long term result be that for which you're hoping.
1. Ensure people know that I'm there for them.
1. Become a better electronic communicator.
** Compose responses more quickly.
** Respond with faster turnaround.
** Check on friends and acquaintances every now and then (i.e. don't fall off, and don't let others fall off).
** "Few rejections happen due to the wording of an email." ;)
1. Keep a cool head: avoid getting caught up in your personal zeitgeist or the instantaneous zeitgeist of a broader group.

### Conclusion

Your correspodent knows you got this. Keep on keeping on, and don't be too guarded.
